And with video,
you can also use picture-in-picture.
From JavaScript,
it's actually pretty simple.
You take the video element and
you'll requestPictureInPicture.
And if you wanna get out
of picture-in-picture,
you talk to the document, not to the video
element, and you exitPictureInPicture.
And there is a boolean
in the document element,
pictureInPictureElement that
tells you if there is an element
in this dome that is currently
in picture-in-picture.
So, for example, if you have a button that
is toggling picture-in-picture, on and
off, that's the code.
And I will show you this
in action in a second.
Any question, yeah?
Okay, so also there are new events for
the video element
like enterpictureinpicture,
leavepictureinpicture, okay?
And as I mentioned before,
you cannot add HTML.
So if you wanna customize the UI of
that secondary canvas that you have
in the background, you have to play
with the video that you're sending,
the video buffer that you're sending,
okay?
To the API.
There is a pseudo class for CSS in
case you wanna customize a little bit,
the video element, but there are not so
much things you can customize, actually.
And, well,
we have already seen the JavaScript
code that will let you toggle this.
And controls are managed
through the other APIs,
because the picture-in-picture
can have controls.
And those controls will trigger JavaScript
through the other API, okay, make sense?
Cool, so before actually seeing
this in action with our code,
I wanna show you this, pip-rendering-fun,
picture-in-picture rendering fun.
So let me run this, for
example, on Chrome.
Remember I mentioned that there are some
tricks with picture-in-picture.
Well, here you have a couple.
For example,
this demo will open picture-in-picture,
not with a video, but with some stats.
Let me show you this.
Of course, it's a picture-in-picture so
you can move it around the OS.
And, of course, I can minimize the
browser, and that's picture-in-picture.
And also you can even
mix this with actions.
So, for example,
I could add a Previous and
Next button over the picture-in-picture
that will trigger JavaScript, and
that JavaScript will change
what we're rendering.
This trick doesn't work on mobile,
only on desktops.
So mobile, you have to send an actual
source that is actually a video.
If not, it's not taking it, okay?
[COUGH] So
there are a couple of examples here.
Meta is just showing the window size.
So if I resize it,
remember, it feels simple,
but this is actually a video stream, okay?
On top of the web app.
Well, time tracker, there are many, okay?
As you can see here, of course,
you can resize this window,
you can see it can have it's
any size with Any orientation.
So it can be landscape or portrait,
it doesn't matter, it just work.
Let me go back to the window.
And this one is drawing so
you can actually draw in a canvas,
and it renders directly in
the picture-in-picture.
This is an example, again,
yeah, a little over the edge.
But to show you that it's another way
that we have, at least on dekstop, okay?
To create the UI that runs
in the background and
keeps a UI floating over the OS.
Yeah, also even if you don't
provide any JavaScript code
on compatible browsers,
any video element will have an icon.
In fact, in our code, I didn't add
any code here, I have a video.
And if you start playing the video,
you could start picture-in-picture even
if I'm not adding any JavaScript code.
So picture-in-picture will work anyway,
no matter if you are using the API.
The idea with API is that you can
actually customize what you're doing,
you can listen for events, and
you can request that from code.
But now if I minimize this,
that continues playing.
>> How are you dynamically generating
a video stream to feed into that?
Is that-
>> Well, this is open-source so
you can actually see it in action, okay?
This one, here I have the repository.
But it has to do with creating
a canvas is rendering on
a in-memory canvas, 2D canvas.
And each image from the canvas,
it's sent as a buffer,
like a bit map, as one frame of a video.
>> Can do that?
There's-
>> You can do that.
Yeah, you can do that with the web.
>> Bonkers.
>> People put in the background for games.
Render a frame before
they need to render it.
>> In fact, think about this.
You have the gamepad API,
because maybe you're thinking,
okay, I do this in the background.
Might have a secondary
nice picture-in-picture,
but how can I play with the game?
Well, you have the actions, but
it's actually pretty limited.
But now you have the gamepad API
compatible with every browser.
So you have a gamepad, a bluetooth
gamepad, or wired gamepad, you can
actually use a gamepad to play a game in
a picture-in-picture background web app.
So it's possible, but
to actually make that work,
you need to request picture-in-picture,
your code or the user.
So someone needs to request
picture-in-picture.
If you don't request picture-in-picture
when you go to the background,
you will lose a lot of abilities.
So it's not gonna work properly.
But if you request picture-in-picture,
your code has full background abilities
as if it's in the foreground.